Stop Trying to Make Hard Work Easy
https://superorganizers.substack.com/p/stop-trying-to-make-hard-work-easy
Nir Eyal
The problem is, when we expect work to be effortless and it ends up being difficult, we often blame ourselves. So the very tools we’re using to make work easier, can instead make it easier for us to give up.
Most people say that the opposite of distraction is focus. But I don’t think that’s true. I think that the opposite of distraction is not focus, it is traction.
Traction is any action that pulls you toward what you want to do. By contrast, distraction is any action that pulls you away from what you planned to do.
And I think that things like email, or small todo list items are actually the most pernicious distractions because they feel productive. What we don’t realize is that in those instances, distraction has tricked us into prioritizing what feels urgent as opposed to what we really need to be doing. And that is toxic for your productivity, for your well-being, and for your happiness.
So: anything is a distraction as long as it’s not what you planned to do. In the same way, anything can be traction, too.
The word that differentiates the two is intent.
My strategy for eliminating distraction is as follows:
Master internal triggers
Make time for traction
Hack back external triggers
Prevent distraction with pacts
Distraction is caused by two things: internal triggers and external triggers.
External triggers are all the pings, and the dings, and all the things in our external environment that are pulling our attention away from the thing we had planned to spend our time on.
Internal triggers are what’s happening inside of us.
It turns out that distraction and procrastination are actually our default responses to uncomfortable feelings. They’re not character flaws, they’re emotional regulation problems.
When we procrastinate or distract ourselves it’s because we want to escape from uncomfortable sensations: boredom, loneliness, fatigue, uncertainty.
So if you want to deal with distraction the first thing you have to do is deal with the negative emotional triggers that lead to it.
When I sit down to write a few things come up regularly. Boredom. Fatigue. Anxiety. Uncertainty.
So a piece of research isn’t this dark scary thing anymore, it starts to unfold like a flower. You start to see the beauty in the task. For me, that’s what uncertainty is. It’s actually what drives me back to research now rather than causing me to be distracted — because I don’t know what’s going to happen. And that’s exciting.
I’ll be writing and I’ll get this insane itch to go Google something — which I know will send me down a rabbit hole of distraction.
l have something I call the 10 minute rule for this.
Rather than Google it, what I'll often do is write down on a piece of paper whatever it is I think I need to look up. And then I'll give myself 10 minutes. And if it's so important after ten minutes then maybe I’ll look it up. Usually that works, and I can just get back to work.
Sometimes, though, the urge doesn’t go away. It’s the same type of urge that you might feel when you want to eat a piece of chocolate cake.
If that happens, then I do what I call “surfing the urge.” You basically sit with the sensation, and examine it. You’ll find that if you can do that, it doesn’t last forever — even though it feels like it will.
Sometimes, though, the urge doesn’t go away. It’s the same type of urge that you might feel when you want to eat a piece of chocolate cake.
If that happens, then I do what I call “surfing the urge.” You basically sit with the sensation, and examine it. You’ll find that if you can do that, it doesn’t last forever — even though it feels like it will.
The key is not to always expect things to be easy
When people say, “I want to start a habit,” what they’re really saying is: “I want something that's difficult to become effortless.” They’re saying: “I want the benefits, but I don't want it to be hard.”
We have to get comfortable with discomfort.
the next step is to plan how you spend your time. I call this making time for traction.
Your schedule needs to be defined by your values. Values are the attributes of the person that you want to become. Once we understand the kind of people we want to become, we can create a schedule that maps to that.
There are three life domains that are important to consider: You, Your Relationships, Your Work.
keep in mind there are two types of work: reactive work (responding to emails, Slacks, etc.) and reflective work.
The only way to know if you were distracted is if you planned to spend your time on one thing, and instead you spent your time on something else.
Once I sit down at my desk, I try to eliminate my external triggers. This is the kindergarten stuff.
When I’m wearing the concentration crown it sends a signal to my daughter that I can’t be interrupted. By the way, this also works for co-workers too. You don’t necessarily need a silly hat — you just need a way of letting people know when you can and can’t be interrupted.
It's incredibly effective with her.
There are a few types of pacts, but when it comes to exercise I use a price pact. Basically, what that means is I’ve established a monetary disincentive for me to skip my workout. It works like this:
In my closet I have a calendar, and pinned to the calendar is a $100 bill. For each day on the calendar I can either burn the calories by going to the gym, or I have to burn the $100 bill. Each day I move the bill to the next day on the calendar and make the choice over again.
